TransferRates (old msr continuous capabilities) (#2358)
openmc-dev/openmc: docs/source/usersguide/depletion.rst

:class:`openmc.deplete.IndependentOperator` are fixed for the entire depletion
simulation. This implicit assumption may produce inaccurate results for certain
scenarios.

MSR-Continuous depletion
===============================
The :class:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous` class adds the capability to add
nuclide removal rates to a depletable material.

An instance of this class requires
:class:`~openmc.deplete.abc.TransportOperator` and :class:`~openmc.Model`
instances, and can be passed directly to one of the Integrator classes::

    ...
    msr = openmc.deplete.msr.MsrContinuous(op, model)
    integrator = openmc.deplete.PredictorIntegrator(op, time_steps, power,

>                 msr_continuous=msr)

Author: When I implemented it in the first place I thought it would make sense to have everything in one place, but it could make sense now and shouldn't take long to re-adapt it this way if needed.

Defining removal rates
----------------------

Removal rates can be added to a :class:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous` instance
with the :meth:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous.set_removal_rate()` method.
A :class:`~openmc.Material` instance, material id, or
material name can specify the depletable material from which nuclides are removed.
The removal rate units are `1/s` by default, but `1/h` or `1/d` can also be used.
For example, to set a Xenon removal from `mat1` with a cycle time of `10 sec`
(removal rate of 0.1 `1/s`), you'd use::

    mat1 = openmc.Material(material_id=1, name='fuel')

    ...

    # by openmc.Material object
    msr.set_removal_rate(mat1, ['Xe'] 0.1)
    # or by material id
    msr.set_removal_rate(1, ['Xe'] 0.1)
    # or by material name
    msr.set_removal_rate('fuel', ['Xe'] 0.1)

Note that in this case the nuclides that are removed will not be tracked.

Defining a destination material
-----------------------------

To keep track of the nuclides that are removed or to define a feed from one

> depletable material to another, a `destination_material` argument needs to be passed to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
depletable material to another, the ``destination_material`` parameter needs to be passed to the
```

:class:`openmc.deplete.IndependentOperator` are fixed for the entire depletion
simulation. This implicit assumption may produce inaccurate results for certain
scenarios.

MSR-Continuous depletion
===============================
The :class:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous` class adds the capability to add
nuclide removal rates to a depletable material.

An instance of this class requires
:class:`~openmc.deplete.abc.TransportOperator` and :class:`~openmc.Model`
instances, and can be passed directly to one of the Integrator classes::

    ...
    msr = openmc.deplete.msr.MsrContinuous(op, model)
    integrator = openmc.deplete.PredictorIntegrator(op, time_steps, power,
                msr_continuous=msr)

Defining removal rates
----------------------

Removal rates can be added to a :class:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous` instance
with the :meth:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous.set_removal_rate()` method.

> Depletable materials from which nuclides are removed can be specified using the
> :class:`~openmc.Material` instance previously defined. Material id or
> name are also accepted entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A :class:`~openmc.Material` instance, material id, or
material name can specify the depletable material from which nuclides are removed.
```

> Removal rate default units are `1/s`, but `1/h` or `1/d` can also be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The removal rate units are `1/s` by default, but `1/h` or `1/d` can also be used.
```

For example, to set a Xenon removal from `mat1` with a cycle time of `10 sec`
(removal rate of 0.1 `1/s`), you'd use::

    mat1 = openmc.Material(material_id=1, name='fuel')

    ...

    # by openmc.Material object
    msr.set_removal_rate(mat1, ['Xe'] 0.1)
    # or by material id
    msr.set_removal_rate(1, ['Xe'] 0.1)
    # or by material name
    msr.set_removal_rate('fuel', ['Xe'] 0.1)

Note that in this case the nuclides that are removed will not be tracked.

> Defining destination material

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining a destination material
```

-----------------------------

> To keep track of the nuclides that are removed or to define a feed from one
> depletable material to another, a `dest_mat` argument needs to be passed to the
> :meth:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous.set_removal_rate()` method. For example,
> to remove nuclides from `mat1` and feed to `mat2`, you'd use::
> 
>     ...
>     mat2 = openmc.Material(name='storage')
> 
>     ...
> 
>     msr.set_removal_rate(mat1, ['Xe'] 0.1, dest_mat=mat2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep track of the nuclides that are removed or to define a feed from one
depletable material to another, a `destination_material` argument needs to be passed to the
:meth:`~openmc.deplete.MsrContinuous.set_removal_rate()` method. For example,
to remove nuclides from `mat1` and feed to `mat2`, you'd use::

    ...
    mat2 = openmc.Material(name='storage')

    ...

    msr.set_removal_rate(mat1, ['Xe'] 0.1, destination_material=mat2)
```
Consider using `destination_material` instead of `dest_mat`. I think this is more consistent with the current style of naming variables in OpenMC.

:class:`openmc.deplete.IndependentOperator` are fixed for the entire depletion
simulation. This implicit assumption may produce inaccurate results for certain
scenarios.

Transfer Rates
==============

The :class:`~openmc.deplete.TransferRates` class adds the capability to set
continuous transfer rates of nuclides to a depletable material.

An instance of this class requires
:class:`~openmc.deplete.abc.TransportOperator` and :class:`~openmc.Model`
instances, and can be passed directly to one of the Integrator classes::

    ...
    transfer = openmc.deplete.TransferRates(op, model)
    integrator = openmc.deplete.PredictorIntegrator(op, time_steps, power,
                transfer_rates=transfer)

> Defining transfer rates
> ----------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defining transfer rates
-----------------------
```

:class:`openmc.deplete.IndependentOperator` are fixed for the entire depletion
simulation. This implicit assumption may produce inaccurate results for certain
scenarios.

Transfer Rates
==============

Transfer rates define removal or feed of nuclides to or from one or more
depletable materials. This can be useful to model continuous fuel reprocessing,
online fission products separation, etc.

Transfers are defined calling the

> :meth:`~openmc.deplete.abc.Integrator.add_transfer_rate()` method, directly from

Reviewer 3: beautiful way to do it!

> Transfers are defined calling the
> :meth:`~openmc.deplete.abc.Integrator.add_transfer_rate()` method, directly from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transfer rates are defined by calling the
:meth:`~openmc.deplete.abc.Integrator.add_transfer_rate()` method directly from
```

one of the Integrator classes::

    ...
    integrator = openmc.deplete.PredictorIntegrator(op, time_steps, power)
    integrator.add_transfer_rate(...)

Defining transfer rates
-----------------------

> The :meth:`~openmc.deplete.abc.Integrator.add_transfer_rate()` method requires an instance
> to a :class:`~openmc.Material` or the material id or
> the material name, as the depletable material from which nuclides are processed,
> a list of elements that share the same transfer rate, and a transfer rate value, as the
> rate at which elements are transferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :meth:`~openmc.deplete.abc.Integrator.add_transfer_rate()` method requires a
:class:`~openmc.Material` instance (alternatively, a material id or
the name) as the depletable material from which nuclides are processed,
a list of elements that share the same transfer rate, and a transfer rate itself.
```

.. important::

   Make sure you set the transfer rate value with the right sign.

>    A positive transfer rate assumes removal, while a negative one assumes feed.

Reviewer 3: very nice clarification here, as this is not intuitively obvious.

>    A positive transfer rate assumes removal, while a negative one assumes feed.

Reviewer: This seems backwards to me on first read, but it makes sense in the context of the depletion equation. It may be prudent to use `.. caution::` here for emphasis instead of `.. important::`

> The transfer rate units can be specified by assigning '1/s', '1/min', '1/h', '1/d'
> or '1/a' to the ``transfer_rate_units`` argument. Default units are '1/s'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``transfer_rate_units`` argument specifies the units for the transfer rate.
The default is `1/s`, but '1/min', '1/h', '1/d' and '1/a' are also valid
options.
```

> For example, to define continuous removal of Xenon from one material with a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, to define continuous removal of xenon from one material with a
```

removal rate value of 0.1 s\ :sup:`-1` (or a cycle time of 10 s), you'd use::

    mat1 = openmc.Material(material_id=1, name='fuel')

    ...

    integrator = openmc.deplete.PredictorIntegrator(op, time_steps, power)
    # by openmc.Material object
    integrator.add_transfer_rate(mat1, ['Xe'], 0.1)
    # or by material id
    integrator.add_transfer_rate(1, ['Xe'], 0.1)
    # or by material name
    integrator.add_transfer_rate('fuel', ['Xe'], 0.1)

> Note that in this case the xenon nuclides that are removed will not be tracked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in this case the xenon isotopes that are removed will not be tracked.
```

Defining a destination material
-------------------------------

To transfer elements from one depletable material to another, the
``destination_material`` parameter needs to be passed to the
:meth:`~openmc.deplete.abc.Integrator.add_transfer_rate()` method. For example,

> to transfer Xenon from one material to another, you'd use::

Reviewer: capitalization consistency
```suggestion
to transfer xenon from one material to another, you'd use::
```
